In this video, we're going to quickly describe the definitions of injective and surjective
linear transformations. So suppose we're given a linear transformation
T from V to W; so V and W can be any vector spaces. But if you
like, think of them as Euclidean spaces. So the first definition is of an injective
linear transformation. So injective transformations send different
vectors to different places. So what that means is that if you take
two vectors from your domain, maybe v and we, and they are different vectors. So v
is not equal to w -- then T(v) is not equal to T(w).
They end up at a different place. They started out at different places. They end up at different places.
So that's what that property is called, either injective or one to one. So those two words
are going to be used interchangeably. The other definition
we want to talk about is what are called surjective linear transformations.
And here we want to think about transformations that fill up all of the codomain. So
in general, when you apply your map, T, your domain was
only going to be part of your code domain. So surjective maps are ones where
the image is actually the entire codomain. So in this case, we can
think about that in symbols as saying that the image of T is actually equal to all of W.
So the image of T is always going to be a subspace of W. But when you have a surjective
map, it's actually all of W. In following videos, we'll talk about
how to actually test if a given linear transformation is injective and or surjective
surgically.